# preface
## The game between urban planning and data analysis
Memory in our old days, a voice often haunted in the air, such as, ' the best method is the method you are most familiar with ~' ，‘this is not our professional field, your paper can not pass the expert review!', and 'off-the-shelf tools can be used, learning code is not practical,' and so on. These voices seem to have died down recently as 'interdisciplinary studies,' 'digital seminars' and 'big data seminars' in the field of Architecture and Urban Planning, as well as research in colleges and universities, and courses are offered to provide insights into the digital dimension of disciplinary development. At the same time, however, there are two tendencies. One is that some papers titled '...based on GIS', '...based on big data', '...based on machine learning' etc... This tendency is the initial cognition of digital intervention in the field of design and planning. For example, parametric technology affects the way of design thinking to a certain extent in a straightforward way at the beginning, and now the design method has been integrated with mathematical logic. Or using incorporate code from our own research instead of a pop-up window-type software with a large number of existing research results only by others. These are two different depths. The latter do research more freely, not looking for tools but building them, which means no longer just applying the work of others, but trying to find solutions to particular problems on ourselves. At this point, we need to master the underlying tools, the programming language, not the integrated software. It is also why we can not leave the problems of our major on the subject of data analysis. Only professional people know what issues need to be solved, and when they encounter problems, they can immediately solve them with language tools, which is the problem of our subject.

## Content of urban spatial data analysis
Spatial data analysis has a long history, but it usually uses pop-up window-type platforms, or information drawings are laid on top of each other . The limitations of the tools limit the depth of the analysis and put forward ideas to tackle the problem. Computers, remote sensing, network information, and language solve this constrained situation in terms of data and tools. Researchers can free up the field of thinking and ascend to the top of artificial intelligence.

The research content of the urban spatial data analysis method is hard to define the study border; in fact, this is not conclusive research and cannot be recognized,  more than just trying to explore the data analysis approach to solve the problem correspondingly through multiple experiments. Therefore, it can be seen that the content contains productive aspects, such as research data processing, the thermal environment outside buildings, urban thermal environment, urban color and visual landscape quality, life circle, urban spatial structure, and temporal-spatial data, as well as a driverless city project. Based on many projects, this book tries to clarify a logic when elaborating on the urban spatial data analysis method and explain it in a step-by-step and orderly way, so that readers can explore the clues and continue to learn and study.

## What kind of book is worth reading? _Integration of resources(data acquisition, code availability, theoretical interpretation, interactive community)
After the previous experience of writing books, I realized that it also could not because of the work that brings confusion to readers. Readers could waste plenty of time making sense of all kinds of problems caused by authors, especially the code problem, which leads young people astray. It is also the focus of this time, so there is the integration of data acquisition, code availability, theoretical interpretation, and interactive community resources. It can be frustrating to learn a skill without having the initial data because you either do not have the data or spend more time trying to figure it out than you should. Either you do not get to practice the code, the author has worked so hard to code, or the author cannot teach it, which is terrible, thus providing the data is a must. Moreover, the author sometimes thinks that only by typing in the code can you utterly understand the idea behind it, so it is right not to open the source code. However, many issues come, for the code in research, there are thousands of lines, ten thousand lines, is it indispensable to re-typing line by line? Self-typing code is suitable for beginners at the beginning of the code study stage, to the research application stage is never done, or else, it will waste precious time.  Meanwhile, many times you want to be able to transfer some code to your research, so it is essential to open source code, and when writing code, to be as modular as possible to form code modules that are portable and available for use.

A professional analysis is not a problem that the code itself can solve. The reason why the code has a soul is to integrate the thoughts of researchers. Therefore, learning the language structure and data type of the code itself is not a problem, and it can take as low as a few days or as low as a week to master it. But using language to solve professional issues is really where the focus is. The solution to the problem, especially the mathematical logic of the diagram, how to explain it easily is worth to be thoughtful. That is what we are trying to do.  An interactive community establishment is an attempt to bring vitality in providing advice to the author as well as help to the reader during the research process and after the book's completion.

## Knowledge develops in the stream of time-code renewal and thought permanence
'What are you worried about?' 'It is useless to learn this knowledge, and it will soon be updated.', can only learn history, learn the classic theory? However, it is inevitable that the core theories of the planning and design industry, especially design ability, have a taste of 'talent.'  Beauty seems to have never changed since ancient times, but each generation can reach different heights. Code, no matter what language it is written, has a core structure that resonates with the human mind, differing only in the form of expression and the updating of problem-solving logic. People are always continually practicing the ability to think. When one masters a language, it is easy relatively to learn another language, and the constant exercise of logic will infiltrate into the inspection of relevant problems. 'The heart is like a mirror stage' artistic conception; understanding 'Tao' is the need for thinking.

<div style="text-align: right; font-style: italic"> richie bao</div>
<div style="text-align: right;font-style: italic"> 2020-06-15</div>